docs: improve integrations guide & import model using absolute path (#2076)
janhq/jan: docs/docs/guides/07-integrations/05-integrate-lmstudio.mdx

---
title: Integrate LM Studio with Jan
slug: /guides/integrations/lmstudio
description: Guide to integrate LM Studio with Jan
keywords:
  [
    Jan AI,
    Jan,
    ChatGPT alternative,
    local AI,
    private AI,
    conversational AI,
    no-subscription fee,
    large language model,
    LM Studio integration,
  ]
---

## Quick Introduction

With [LM Studio](https://lmstudio.ai/), you can discover, download, and run local Large Language Models (LLMs). In this guide, we will show you how to integrate and use your current models on LM Studio with Jan using 2 methods.  The first method is integrating LM Studio server with Jan UI. The second method is migrating your downloaded model from LM Studio to Jan. We will use the [Phi 2 - GGUF](https://huggingface.co/TheBloke/phi-2-GGUF) model on Hugging Face as an example.

## Steps to Integrate LM Studio Server with Jan UI

### 1. Start the LM Studio Server

> Navigate to the `Local Inference Server` on the LM Studio application, and select the model you want to use. Then, start the server after configuring the server port and options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to the `Local Inference Server` on the LM Studio application.
2. Select the model you want to use. 
3. Start the server after configuring the server port and options.
```

![LM Studio Server](assets/05-setting-lmstudio-server.gif)

<br></br>

Modify the `openai.json` file in the `~/jan/engines` folder to include the full URL of the LM Studio server.

```json title="~/jan/engines/openai.json"
{
  "full_url": "http://localhost:<port>/v1/chat/completions"
}
```

:::tip

- Replace `<port>` with the port number you set in the LM Studio server. The default port is `1234`.

:::

### 2. Modify a Model JSON

Navigate to the `~/jan/models` folder. Create a folder named `<lmstudio-modelname>`, for example, `lmstudio-phi-2` and create a `model.json` file inside the folder including the following configurations:

> - Ensure the filename must be `model.json`.

Reviewer: Since we already created ask users to create a `model.json`, I think this is redundant and can be removed.

- Ensure the `format` property is set to `api`.
- Ensure the `engine` property is set to `openai`.

> - Ensure the `state` property is set to `ready`.

Reviewer: We can be more decisive and use the word set instead of ensure so I suggest to update these to be 

1. Set the `format` property to `api`
2. Set the `engine` property to `openai`
3. Set the `state` property to `ready`

```json title="~/jan/models/lmstudio-phi-2/model.json"
{
  "sources": [
    {
      "filename": "phi-2-GGUF",
      "url": "https://huggingface.co/TheBloke/phi-2-GGUF"
    }
  ],
  "id": "lmstudio-phi-2",
  "object": "model",
  "name": "LM Studio - Phi 2 - GGUF",
  "version": "1.0",
  "description": "TheBloke/phi-2-GGUF",
  // highlight-next-line
  "format": "api",
  "settings": {},
  "parameters": {},
  "metadata": {
    "author": "Microsoft",
    "tags": ["General", "Big Context Length"]
  },
  // highlight-start
  "engine": "openai"
  // highlight-end
}
```

### 3. Start the Model

> Restart Jan and navigate to the Hub. Locate your model and click the Use button.

Reviewer: 1. Restart Jan and navigate to the **Hub**. 
2. Locate your model and click the **Use** button.

![LM Studio Model](assets/05-lmstudio-run.png)

### 4. Try Out the Integration of Jan and LM Studio

![LM Studio Integration Demo](assets/05-lmstudio-integration-demo.gif)

## Steps to Migrate Your Downloaded Model from LM Studio to Jan (version 0.4.6 and older)

### 1. Migrate Your Downloaded Model

> Navigate to `My Models` in the LM Studio application and reveal the model folder.

Reviewer: 1. Navigate to `My Models` in the LM Studio application and reveal the model folder.

![Reveal-model-folder-lmstudio](assets/05-reveal-model-folder-lmstudio.gif)

> Copy the model folder that you want to migrate to `~/jan/models` folder.

Reviewer: 2. Copy the model folder that you want to migrate to `~/jan/models` folder.

> Ensure the folder name property is the same as the model name of `.gguf` filename by changing the folder name if necessary. For example, in this case, we changed foldername from `TheBloke` to `phi-2.Q4_K_S`.

Reviewer: 3. Ensure the folder name property is the same as the model name of `.gguf` filename by changing the folder name if necessary. For example, in this case, we changed the folder name from `TheBloke` to `phi-2.Q4_K_S`.

### 2. Start the Model

> Restart Jan and navigate to the Hub. Jan will automatically detect the model and display it in the Hub. Locate your model and click the Use button for trying out the migrating model.

Reviewer: 1. Restart Jan and navigate to the **Hub**. Jan will automatically detect the model and display it in the **Hub**. 
2. Locate your model and click the **Use** button to try the migrating model.

![Demo](assets/05-demo-migrating-model.gif)

## Steps to Pointing to the Downloaded Model of LM Studio from Jan (version 0.4.7+)

Starting from version 0.4.7, Jan supports importing models using an absolute filepath, so you can directly use the model from the LM Studio folder.

### 1. Reveal the Model Absolute Path

Navigate to `My Models` in the LM Studio application and reveal the model folder. Then, you can get the absolute path of your model.

![Reveal-model-folder-lmstudio](assets/05-reveal-model-folder-lmstudio.gif)

### 2. Modify a Model JSON

Navigate to the `~/jan/models` folder. Create a folder named `<modelname>`, for example, `phi-2.Q4_K_S` and create a `model.json` file inside the folder including the following configurations:

- Ensure the filename must be `model.json`.
- Ensure the `id` property matches the folder name you created.
- Ensure the `url` property is the direct binary download link ending in `.gguf`. Now, you can use the absolute filepath of the model file. In this example, the absolute filepath is `/Users/<username>/.cache/lm-studio/models/TheBloke/phi-2-GGUF/phi-2.Q4_K_S.gguf`.

> - Ensure the `engine` property is set to `nitro`.

Reviewer: Please check the similar comment above. Thank you

```json
{
  "object": "model",
  "version": 1,
  "format": "gguf",
  "sources": [
    {
      "filename": "phi-2.Q4_K_S.gguf",
      "url": "<absolute-path-of-model-file>"
    }
  ],
  "id": "phi-2.Q4_K_S",
  "name": "phi-2.Q4_K_S",
  "created": 1708308111506,
  "description": "phi-2.Q4_K_S - user self import model",
  "settings": {
    "ctx_len": 4096,
    "embedding": false,
    "prompt_template": "{system_message}\n### Instruction: {prompt}\n### Response:",
    "llama_model_path": "phi-2.Q4_K_S.gguf"
  },
  "parameters": {
    "temperature": 0.7,
    "top_p": 0.95,
    "stream": true,
    "max_tokens": 2048,
    "stop": ["<endofstring>"],
    "frequency_penalty": 0,
    "presence_penalty": 0
  },
  "metadata": {
    "size": 1615568736,
    "author": "User",
    "tags": []
  },
  "engine": "nitro"
}
```

:::warning

- Windows users may need to use double backslashes in the `url` property, for example: `C:\\Users\\username\\filename.gguf`.

:::

### 3. Start the Model

> Restart Jan and navigate to the Hub. Jan will automatically detect the model and display it in the Hub. Locate your model and click the Use button for trying out the migrating model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Restart Jan and navigate to the **Hub**. 
2. Jan will automatically detect the model and display it in the **Hub**. 
3. Locate your model and click the **Use** button to try the migrating model.
```

---
title: Integrate LM Studio with Jan
slug: /guides/integrations/lmstudio
description: Guide to integrate LM Studio with Jan
keywords:
  [
    Jan AI,
    Jan,
    ChatGPT alternative,
    local AI,
    private AI,
    conversational AI,
    no-subscription fee,
    large language model,
    LM Studio integration,
  ]
---

## Quick Introduction

> With [LM Studio](https://lmstudio.ai/), you can discover, download, and run local Large Language Models (LLMs). In this guide, we will show you how to integrate and use your current models on LM Studio with Jan. We will use the model [Phi 2 - GGUF](https://huggingface.co/TheBloke/phi-2-GGUF) on Hugging Face as an example.

Reviewer 2: I think we should give 3 options: 

- use lmstudio as a backend x jan as fe
- jan as be x lmstudio as fe (? is this possible)
- use jan as fe and be and point to models in the lmstudio app folder

Author: Got it! Let's me test all available options.

Author: I added more section that cover section 1 and section 3. Section 2 seems impossible.
